title:"Disaster Noir Treatment"
link:"disasterNoir"
date:"14 November 2014"
category:"Stories"
content:"A man kneels by a door. He works a lockpick into the keyhole. He works with the steadiness of a one who has done this a thousand times over. He plays with the lock, and eventually works the door open. He looks over his shoulder and steps into the house. Inside, he pulls out a pen and a notepad from his jacket. Walking down a hallway he takes notes of various items of interest: scuff marks on the wall, indentations that look like fist marks, burn marks on the walls. Continuing through the house he gets to a desk. Looking from side to side he slides the drawer open. He ruffles through various papers inside the desk when suddenly,
“What the fuck are you doing in my house?”
Whirling the man sees the owner of this house. The man is broad and tall with the look of someone that has pure brute strength. The first man is not small by any means but he is dwarfed by a person that is a veritable ogre. 
Backing up, sans words the man backs up. He starts to reach into his coat, grabbing at his holster but thinks better of it. He continues backing up. 
“What. The. Fuck. Are you doing here?” The ogre says. He closes to arms length and goes to reach for the man. He twists out of the way and sprints towards the back door. They run through the kitchen and the ogre picks up a knife from the sink. The man sprints towards the door. As he books it out the door and turns immediately, his coat flapping. The knife vibrates, embedded close to an inch in the wood of the doorframe. The ogre runs out the door, turning, the man is nowhere to be found.  
The man walks down a dark alleyway, looking over a shoulder. It’s raining. He has the collar of his jacket turned up, trying to stay even marginally dry.
VO: “You know, I used to think that life had a way of working itself out. That was before the shit hit the fan. How naive was I? Reduced to this, toiling away for scraps.”
 He walks up to the door, it reads: “Roland Brooks P.I.”. He fishes some keys out of his pocket. He jams them in the door. He turns the knob, it’s stuck and he has to do a little jiggering to get it unstuck. The door opens with a jolt and Brooks stumbles inside. The office is dark,musty, and sparse with a desk, a coat rack, and a rather sad book shelf. 
VO: “Welcome to my office. This is where I run my little operation from. It may not look like much, and that’s cause it isn’t.”
Brooks hangs up his soaked jacket on the rack and sits behind his desk in a ratty chair. He takes his revolver out of the shoulder holster and puts it on the desk. Opening up a drawer, he pulls out a decanter of some caramel colored alcohol and a glass. Pouring himself a measure, he leans back in his chair. He goes to take a sip.
The room shakes violently and suddenly. Brooks falls backwards onto the floor and the shelf falls on top of him. Everything goes black as the glass hits the ground.
VO: “The world sounded like it was exploding. Just as soon as you think that life has beaten it out of you, it throws another curve ball. And this time it felt like Uncle Charlie was staying for dinner.”
Brooks comes to underneath in the dark underneath his bookshelf. Coughing, he pushes the bookshelf out of the way. His office, already bad is in shambles. He has a pretty bad looking knot on his forehead. Rubbing his eyes he slowly walks, limps, around the office. He grabs his gun off the desk and puts it back in the holser. Moving the coat rack aside, he picks up his jacket, and giving it a light dusting, puts it on. 
VO: “And it looked like it was gonna be one of those days. Not that I had any idea what this day was going to be like.”
Brooks limps outside. He trudges through the alley, making his way to the street, the rain has stopped, supplanted by a mist, the sky is an ominous grey. As he gets to the street. He looks up at the city scape. In the distance there are fires and smoke. He looks up and down the street, there are crashed cars and dazed looking people wandering around. To the south there is a large pillar of smoke. It seems different to the smoke coming from the buildings. It seems like it’s convalescing around something, instead of billowing like normal smoke does. It’s about a mile and a half away from the office.
VO: “I had no idea what had happened. But I had the feeling that that smokey pillar had something to do with it. Being of an inquisitive mind, I felt compelled to investigate.”
Brooks turns on his heel, and walks away from the smokey pillar.
VO: “I ignored that compulsion.”
Brooks walks through the city. As he walks through the city he notes widespread looting and shit generally not doing too hot. 
VO: “I thought I was gonna get back to my apartment, get some supplies, get some information, and get the hell out of Dodge. “
Brooks gets to his building, gets into the building and starts going up the stairs. With each consecutive floor, it gets nastier and nastier, less lighting, more looting. Finally he gets to his floor and it’s just gross. Trash is strewn throughout the hallway, doors are all open, obvious looters are going from room to room. 
VO: “This is the disgusting pit in which I lived. “
Brooks passes by the body of an old man, his throat slit, an expression of terror on his face, eyes wide open. Brooks kneels down, and fixes up the body a little, and closes the man’s eyes. 
VO: “My next door neighbor, a grumpy old man. Still, he didn’t deserve that fate.”
Brooks gets up, continues walking down the hall. He reaches his apartment, the door’s busted. 
“Shit” says Brooks. He grabs his revolver from his shoulder holster. He flips the cylinder out, six bullets.  He goes to creep into his apartment. He slowly goes from room to room. He clears each room with the efficiency and thoroughness of a pro. He gets to the last room and finds a man rummaging through a desk. Brooks clears his throat. The man turns around to find a revolver in his face. 
“Wanna get out of here?” Brooks says. “This is your one shot.” The man looks at his feet and suddenly lunges towards Brooks. Brooks sidesteps and pistol whips the man. As the man hits the floor, Brooks shoots him once in the head, in cold blood. 
VO: “I don’t kill for pleasure. But I also don’t give second chances.” 
Brooks goes to pack a bag. He throws clothes, food, and other necessities into the bag. He clearly lives a sparse life. 
VO: “I figured that I would need to travel light if I was gonna get out of the city in time.”
Brooks goes down the stairs and back into the street. He starts walking down the street again. As he makes his way through the city a cop car peels up to to curb and a cop jumps out. It’s Brooks old friend from when he was on the force, Marcus. He walks up to Brooks.
VO: “Then I ran into my old friend from back on the force. His name was Marcus. He was one of the few to defend me when...well, we’ll get into that later.”
“Roland Brooks. It’s been too long pal.” They grasp hands briefly. 
“Yeah, well, it’s still a little tense around me and the other guys on the force.” They share a moment of silence. 
“Anyways, what the Hell is going on? Earthquake? Tornado? I’ve never seen anything like this.” Brooks says.
Marcus responds:
“Nobody really knows, it definitely has something to do with that column of smoke. But radio communication goes out around fifty yards from it.”
Brooks mulls this over for a second.
“I’m actually surprised that you’re trying to get outta here Roland. You always seemed to be the type that would be at the center of things like this.” Brooks looks over.
“Yeah, well times change. I gotta focus on self-preservation a little more now.” Marcus gives Brooks a thoughtful look.
“I better go, some of us have to be responsible” Marcus turns and without any other comment gets in his squad car and drives back towards the pillar. 
Brooks continues trudging down the street. 
Brooks gets to the outskirts of the city, he’s about a five or so miles from the pillar. He’s in the foothills and the damage to the city is more apparent. Some destroyed buildings and the majority of the damage is in a like half mile radius of the big ass pillar. The pillar is becoming more corporeal and defined, becoming solid. Brooks looks in amazement. There are spiderwebs of cracks emanating from the pillar and going throughout the city. As Brooks looks on the pillar starts to get brighter. 
VO: “It was pretty apparent that this pillar was the cause of all this shit.” 
Suddenly the pillar lights up, brighter than the sun, and lets out a pulse. The resulting wave travels throughout the city bringing the light with it and creating a whole new wave of destruction. Brooks looks on in horror. The wave starts to dissipate as it gets to Brooks but it still has enough force to knock him back a few yards. He lands hard and it goes dark for a second.
Brooks comes to slowly. He gingerly gets up and feels the back of his head. Getting up, he looks upon the city and sees something interesting. The city for like a half mile radius seems to be leaning towards the pillar, like it’s breathing in after a huge exhale. It releases and the city sways a little bit and goes back to “normal”. 
Pulling a pair of binoculars out of his bag, Brooks looks upon the city. He views a plethora of human suffering. People pulling their loved ones out of rubble, children screaming for their parents. This clearly affects Brooks on a very deep level. 
VO: “Here were all these people that were fighting for their damn lives and here I was, running away from it all. I knew I could go down there and help, even in the smallest way. As I stood on the precipice, I saw it…”
Brooks, glassing the city sees something that he knows will make a difference. He looks over the site where the pillar hits the ground, there is a depression and it looks like the pillar is slowly sucking in the earth around itself. Brooks spies a video camera. 
VO: “I made my decision. That video camera probably had at least some clue to what happened there. Law enforcement was probably so busy with crowd control that they hadn’t noticed. But I had.”
Roland Brooks walks down the hill back towards the death and destruction that is the city. 
FADE TO BLACK

	“Brooks, what the fuck are you doing here?” Says a police captain. "
preview:"A disaster noir story treatment"
